---
title: dans-site init
date: 2023-03-04 10:00:00 -700
catagories: [meta,setup]
tags: [meta,setup]
---

This is the fist page post. Followed the guide from [Techno Tim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F8iOU1ci19Q) to build this site. Then push this site into a doocker file, also from on of [Techno Tim's guides](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SnSH8Ht3MIc).

## What did I do?

1. Build Jekyll

    Step one is to install ruby, then use gem to install jekyll and bundler.

    On Ubuntu

    ``` bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install ruby-full build-essential zlib1g-dev git
    ```

    On MacOS

    ``` bash
    brew install chruby ruby-install xz
    ```

    Install bundler

    ``` bash
    gem install jekyll bundler
    cd project-file
    bundle
    ```

2. Modify jekyll config

    Next we need to modify the config file.

    ``` yaml
    timezone: America/Denver
    title: Dans-Homepage
    description: >- 
        Dans site for sharing the things I build (and break)
    ```

    And update all the social links.
    Also make sure to update the `_data/contact.yml` file with what contact sites I want. Remove Twitter and rss, add Mostodon and LinkedIn.

3. Add pages

    Next step will be to add pages. This is done by adding a `YYYY-MD-DD-name.md` to the `_posts/` folder.

    This file also needs a header at the top

    ``` yaml
    ---
    title: dans-site init
    date: 2023-03-04 10:00:00 -700
    catagories: [meta,setup]
    tags: [meta,setup]
    ---
    ```

    Then the rest of the file is filled with the markdown for the post.

4. Build for prod

    Next step is to view and build the site.

    Use `bundle exec jekyll s` to build the site localy. This will build the site then host it locally on port `4000`. Once we like how it looks, we can complie the whole site to html for publishing to the web.

    ``` bash
    JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll b
    ```

    Adding the `JEKYLL_ENV=production` put all the needed html pages in the `_site` folder. From there it's ready to be hosted.

5. Docker build with

    Once it's in that folder, we can push all the files into a docker image. Dockerfile is silly simple. Nginx apline stable.

    ``` Dockerfile
    FROM nginx:stable-alpine
    COPY ./_site /usr/share/nginx/html
    ```

    Then just build and run it.

    ``` bash
    docker build . -t dans-homepage
    docker run -d -p 80:80 dans-homepage
    ```

6. Push dockerfile to AWS?

    The original plan was to add my Dockerfile to ECR and from there spin up ECS to deply it. But the virtual networking to connect all that has been a little ticky. So for now we just spin up a single EC2 instance, run through all the same steps, and poing `oconnordaniel.com` to the Elastic IP address of the instance.

    The next plan will be to do
        1. Something a little more streamlined in terms of "Once I hit `commit && push origin main`, the site just updates.
        And 2. Setting up a fancier and more docker style set up the a single EC2 instance. Cause at that point I might as well just Linode the whole thing.
