---
title: Automating the posts to dans site
date: 2023-03-05 10:00:00 -700
catagories: [ansible]
tags: [ansible, automation]
---

## Ansible

So my next big project is really my last big project. I've been using ansible to automate my homelab for a year os so now. For anyone who doesn't know Ansible is a scripting engine(?) or tool to automate a fleet of servers. The main point of it is's Itempotence.

So how do I do it. Well mostly [this](git@github.com:oconnordaniel/Ansible.git). I say 'mostly' cause that's not the one I currently use in my homelab. That's my slow attempt to port my existing envierment to a Public safe version (while maintaining secrets correctly).

But the main part of it is the same.

```bash
.
├── Docs
│   └── Nifty commds.md
├── files
│   ├── inventory.yml
│   └── variables.yml
├── plays
│   ├── roles
│   │   ├── crowdsec
│   │   ├── nas
│   │   ├── observium
│   │   ├── ssh
│   │   └── ufw
│   ├── full.yml
│   ├── setup-nagios.yml
│   ├── setup_server.yaml
│   └── updates.yml
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
└── ansible.cfg
```

The main plays are `plays/full.yml`, `plays/updates.yml`, and `plays/ping.yml`. These are prety straigt forward.

full.yml runs basicly everything. This play has a simple set of tags that can be used for filetering. `ssh`, or `ufw` for example.

updates.yml runs all updates for all devices in the lab.

And ping.yml is just runs `ansible.builtin.ping` to make sure all the ssh and dns settings are working. Good trouble shooting play to keep in ones back pocket.

The main roles are `ssh`, `ufw` and `nas`.

- `ssh` sets the `etc/ssh/ssh.conf` and `sshd.conf` files for ensuring the ssh is hardened. Then seeds the server with only the authorized keys I want to use to connect.
- `ufw` starts by enabling ufw and sets a default deny rule. Then allows SSH from the local network. Then each other role is responsible for adding it's one rules if needed.

At least here. My main playbook that's production has roles for:

- `hypervisor` for setting up a host Ubuntu OS. Mostly tools and permissions. Haven't quite figured out how to setup the network bridge for that. I still have to do that manually.
- `proxmox` cause I go back and forth on setting up a ubuntu host or a proxmox host. THe proxmox one does things like setting up the non-enterprise repos and fetching files for templates.
- `docker` for setting up a VM to host docker containers.
- `crowdsec`, `nagios`, and `greyhoud` and works in progress. It's always tricking setting up random software cause they keep using a `curl .sh | sudo bash`. Which is always a little concernding from a security perspective. But also that means you got to rip appart the .sh file and manually make each peice a take in the role. Both the server setup and the client agent.
- `pi-dns` which creates a set of docker images for Bind9 and pi-hole to run the dns of the lab.

Even my site I setup the posts to be updated with an ansible playbook that checks git hub for new commits and pulls the updates then restarts the docker if needed.
