---
title: ansible
date: 2023-10-23 09:00:00 -700
catagories: [meta,setup]
tags: [meta,setup,ansible]
---

## How I use ansible

This is a quick summary of how I use Ansible to setup my environment. Bare in mind that I'm not an expert or anything. I'm just showing you how I user it to make my life a little saner.

I have 3 main classes of playbooks that I use.

1. Setup Server
2. Setup Service
3. Setup Workstation

## Setup Server

This is one of my bigger ansible playbook. It does a lot of little things but it does them to all the systems in my environment. So when I first spin up a new VM, I start by assigning it a static IP (and maybe DNS entry) in my DHCP server, then I add it's IP to my inventory file an re-run the playbook.

``` text
tree -L 2 --dirsfirst

.
├── ans-venv
│   └── (this is just the folder made with python -m venv ans-venv)
├── files
│   ├── id_ed25519_ansible
│   ├── id_ed25519_ansible.pub
│   ├── inventory.yml
│   ├── logs
│   └── passwords.yml
├── main
│   ├── defaults
│   ├── files
│   │   └── ssh
│   ├── handlers
│   │   └── main.yml
│   ├── meta
│   │   └── main.yml
│   ├── tasks
│   │   ├── base.yml
│   │   ├── main.yml
│   │   ├── ssh.yml
│   │   ├── ufw.yml
│   │   ├── updates.yml
│   │   └── wazuh.yml
│   ├── tests
│   ├── vars
│   └── README.md
├── vms
│   ├── defaults
│   ├── handlers
│   ├── meta
│   ├── tasks
│   │   └── (this is just for qemu-agents)
│   ├── tests
│   ├── vars
│   └── README.md
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── ansible.cfg
└── main.yml
```

The use of this playbook is simple. Run `ansible-playbook main.yml` from the command line with the option to add `--tags` to the end. The optional tags are `ping, updates, base` and then a series of tags to only run a task.

**`ping`** is pretty simple. It just runs `gather_facts` on all the machines in the inventory file to validate everything can be connected to.

**`updates`** is also simple in that it just runs a simple playbook to update all the servers. Right now I only run debian and ubuntu systems.

``` yaml
- name: Updates
  become: true
  ansible.builtin.apt:
    update_cache: yes
    upgrade: yes
    autoremove: yes
  when: ansible_distribution == 'Ubuntu' or ansible_distribution == 'Debian' 
```

**`base`** does a couple easy things.

- It makes sure `dan` is in the `sudo` group.
- Sets the timezone to `America/Denver` (If I ever setup servers outside of my homelab, I would set that to UTC)
- Installs a couple niceties like `tmux`, `vim`, and `tree`.
- It also installs and sets up some packages like `unattended-upgrades` and `avahi-daemon`.
- Creates a cronjob to run `ansible-pull -U https://gitea.oconnordaniel.com/dan/ansible-pull.git` which just runs updates and reboots all the servers once a week.

**`ssh`** Sets up all servers with the `authorized_keys` files to accept a couple keys, as well as setting up the `sshd_config` file to disable root and password login.

**`ufw`** Sets up all server to enable Uncomplicated FireWall on all servers. Then opens up `22` but ONLY from the `trusted_net` subnets.

Note that that's all it does. That means if I need to open `80` for a web server or `8006` to get to the proxmox web UI, I need to run a different playbook for that service.

**`wazuh`, `zabbix`, `nagios`, `crowdsec`.** are all plays that I've started to setup the client or agent on the servers. This doesn't install the server, these all get their own playbook.

### VMs

VMs get a special sub playbook to setup the `qemu-guest-agent` on the VM.

## Setup Workstation

I'll save Workstations for another post. But there are two playbooks I use to setup a linux desktop with all it's apps and configs, and a MacOS playbook for the same thing.

## Setup Service

As mentioned earlier. These get their own playbook. The general flow is.

1. Spin up a VM.
2. Read though the docs and setup the service set by step.
3. Make sure I'm even happy with the system.
4. Tear it all down and then goes though the docs and setup step by step by making a series of Ansible tasks to do each step.

This means that I have a single playbook that sets up something like a web server or my ProxMox hosts that just focuses on that. It's THAT'S playbook's job to setup whatever ports or services or tools are needed for that system to work.

## The Code

I've stripped out some of the less publicly appropriate code and pushed a copy of this playbook to [My GitHub repo](https://github.com/oconnordaniel/Ansible-Pub)
